Theory of Black Male Alienation posits that a five-stage cycle of institutional repression exists that has effectively sent more black men to jail than it has to college. Any attempt to reverse this war against America’s most misunderstood population begins with a firm analysis of the process and it’s origins in boyhood. Americans, including Blacks, have become so desensitized to the pain of Black boys and so expectant of their failures that their pain is often overlooked and their achievements treated like occasional glitches in a system that has successfully made Black boys a permanent underclass in this country. The five stages of the theory of Black Male Alienation are:

1) Mis-education

2) Psychotropic Medication

3) Mass Incarceration

4) Frustration/Irritation

5) Extermination

It is the job of all Black institutions, parents, elected officials, clergymen and leaders to fight to keep our young men from falling into any of these aforementioned stages. Nearly every Black man in America has already been through one of these stages or is at risk for being sucked into one at this very minute. This brief article cannot properly address the historical underpinnings of each stage in this vicious cycle but rather it seeks to draw everyone's attention to seven (7) facts regarding life as a Black boy in America.

FACT #1: Black boys are turned off from public education based upon the treatment they receive by primarily White female teacher population beginning in kindergarten and intensifying by middle school.
FACT #2: Black boys are referred for learning disability and special education support programs intentionally to remove them from the general student population due to routine behavior problems thusly preparing them for a life of marginalization and prison.
FACT #3: Black boys are sent to detention centers and juvenile delinquent programs which interrupts their schooling and encourages school drop-out especially in states where returning to public school after such a placement is illegal.
FACT #4: Prisons are being used as concentration camps for Black men to be detained since the society-at-large is not interested in hiring these men by equipping them with decent livable wage jobs.
FACT #5: American society is more responsible than any Black man for the destabilization of the Black family by stealing fathers away from sons and thus removing role models and over-burdening Black women with the dual role of both working for and raising their children without any paternal assistance.
FACT #6: The war on drugs has been a war on Black men and has served to destroy the Black community and strip it of its most valuable resource, its men.
FACT #7: Black boys are more likely to be put on dangerous psychiatric medications for emotional problems while White boys are more likely to receive valuable psychotherapy for the cause of their behavior problems, which come with no side effects.
This information has been written to serve as a warning to the Black community, and all of America, to stop institutionalizing and brain drugging our sons. They are normal children and can be successful like other youth, and will respond to love and proper treatment like anyone else.

They need to know the meaning of the terms Special Ed, ADHD, and school suspension rules. Parents need to read the school’s student code of conduct. If parents haven’t read and familiarized themselves with the rules, then they don’t know the possible grounds for the school to suspend or expel their child. The reason that I mentioned suspension and expulsion is because of the recent report which revealed that black boys are being disproportionately suspended and expelled as compared to white boys for the exact same offenses. This is very important as it relates to the Black/White Test Gap because black students (especially black boys) are being suspended so much that they are not being given an opportunity to learn. Then when the black student can’t learn, the school officials will bring up allegations of Special Education. The child doesn’t need Special Education; the child isn’t being allowed to receive a regular education because he is being suspended two or three days per week. I recommend that parents read my book.

Rethinking School Desegregation: Was It A Curse Or Cure For Black Male Students?, he chronicles the rise of neo-segregation within the public school system, and suggests re-segregation. He writes:
“Although never documented in any educational law writings, special education was the panacea that gave calm to White school districts assuring them that they wouldn’t have to truly integrate their schools, but only give the appearance of doing so. When forced busing policies really began to heat up, especially in northern states, in the late ’60s and early ’70s, white schools were able to get away with “cosmetic integration” policies that forced Black children, who rode in on cheese buses, to remain together for the entire school day".
To outside observers, the school appeared integrated, but inside the building, it was business as usual. When community leaders rejected the “cosmetic integration” practices of principals and superintendents, coincidentally, special education was born. Now these very same public school officials had the ability to legitimize their “Separate But Equal” schooling by labeling the cheese-bus-riding-Blacks with “learning disability” and “mental retardation” labels.

The professional nomenclature has now become household words. Children as young as 6 can now speak of "Ritalin" and "ADHD" with stunning efficiency of what these words mean. Teachers and principals are telling single-parent mothers that their sons need "Cyclert" and "Adderall." Special education children are telling their instructors that they cannot be suspended from school for more than 10 days because they have an "IEP." Teenage boys are blaming their behavior on "I didn't have my pill today."

 
As soon as children begin to show signs of a learning challenge parents are racing off to the schools begging for psycho-educational evaluations believing that their children have "learning disabilities" although they have just began to learn. Collectively, we have created that monster that is wrecking havoc upon Black boys in America, the explication of which is central towards a correct understanding of the under achievement and socio-economic marginalization of Black men in the United States.